---
title: Usage
---

## How To Use Rens UI: A Guide to Utilizing Components


Rens UI offers a collection of component classes that allow you to easily create and customize various elements on your web page. You can make use of classes like `alert`, `btn`, `badge`, and more. Below are different ways to use Rens UI components:

## 1. Using Built-in TailwindCSS Utility Classes

When creating a button, you can leverage the power of the built-in TailwindCSS utility classes. This makes it simple to style the button with various pre-defined styles. Here's an example of creating a basic button:

::usage
---
one: true
---
::


```html [html]
<button class="inline-flex  cursor-pointer select-none items-center justify-center rounded-lg bg-gray-background px-3 py-2 gap-x-2 text-center text-sm font-semibold text-content1 duration-150 will-change-transform focus:outline-2 focus-visible:outline focus-visible:outline-offset-2 focus-visible:outline-gray-pressed  active:scale-[0.97]">
   Basic
</button>
```

## 2. Utilizing Rens UI Component Classes
   
Rens UI provides pre-defined component classes that you can directly use to create elements. Here's an example of using the `btn` class to create a basic button:

::usage
---
two: true
---
::

```html [html]
<button class="btn">Basic</button>
```

## 3. Customizing Components with Rens UI Class Utility

Rens UI also allows you to modify components using its class utility. This gives you the flexibility to adjust the appearance of elements according to your requirements. For instance, you can create a customized button with the `btn` class and an additional class for the desired style:

::usage
---
three: true
---
::

```html [html]
<button class="btn btn-success">Basic</button>
```
## 4. Combining Rens UI and TailwindCSS Utility Classes

Moreover, you can combine both Rens UI and TailwindCSS utility classes to achieve more advanced styles. Here's an example of a button with the `btn` class from Rens UI and a `rounded-full` class from TailwindCSS:

:usage

```html [html]
<button class="btn btn-success rounded-full">Basic</button>
```

By using Rens UI components and its class utility in conjunction with the powerful TailwindCSS framework, you can easily create and customize various elements to enhance the user interface of your web application. Experiment with different combinations to achieve the desired look and feel for your project. Happy coding!